# BookDigest.ai PRD

# Problem

Busy people don’t have time to read books, and would like a simple format to get the TL;DR: of recommended books to get a high level idea, and collect enough signals to decide whether this is a book worth the read.

---

# Proposal

Instead of relying on friends’ recommendation or book review sites like blinkist, rely on LLMs such as Google Gemini and ChatGPT to generate generate the following info about the book:
1. textual summary: includes a summary of the book, and a list of key takeaways
2. audio summary: using NotebookLM, generate a podcast of the book summary
3. visual summary: generate a few images summarizing the key takeaways of the book

This differentiates from book review sites that it goes deeper into the content of the book, and potentially we can allow people to ask LLMs about the book directly via a chat interface (need to prevent abuse).

Instead of relying on a chatbot based interface that has higher latency in response and needs to constantly change prompt, build a website with all the prompts ready as well as the results cached so users can experience a seamless experience in learning about a book that they are considering reading.

To monetize the service, rely on affiliate programs to monetize this for users who do consider buying the book at the end. 

---

# Competitors

This section talks about existing players in the space, where their strength and weakness are, and how can we have an competitive edge:

| Competitor | Description | Problems yet to be solved | Features we can learn from |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [BookAbout](https://bookabout.io/) | Book discovery engine that helps you search for books related to any topics | Doesn’t let you learn more about the book | Book discovery with similar books |
| [AskBooks](https://www.askbooks.ai/) | A preset of prompts to ask about a book. Use ChatGPT to answer these questions | Limited set of book selections, poor search experience. Ask questions run query in real time, takes a long time for responses | Popular questions that are tailored for each book, likely generated by ChatGPT |
| [Booknotes](https://getbooknotes.com/?ref=theresanaiforthat) | A preset of prompts to ask about a book. Use ChatGPT to answer these questions | Requires OpenAI key. Limited set of prompts | Besides summary, they list key ideas, quotes, and action items |
| [Summarist](https://summarist.ai/summary/Trillion%20Dollar%20Coach:%20The%20Leadership%20Playbook%20of%20Silicon%20Valley's%20Bill%20Campbell) * | Summarizes a book. Have a wide selection of book with a good search experience. | Doesn’t go deep into each chapter | Weekly free book summary to engage users. Have a legal disclaimer.  |
| [Blinkist](https://www.blinkist.com/) | A series of questions to build profile for recommending from a selected set of 6500 books | Paywall gated | Q&A to build profile |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

## Competitive research takeaways

Summarist is the closest competitor to BookGPT. A few additional takeaways:

1. They are mindful of the legal implications and have a disclaimer
2. Their experience is very snappy, with the exception of a few books that loads for longer. I’m guessing they are caching results and real time fetch content if the book is missing from their DB

A few key features that I have not seen competitors do:

1. Summarize by chapter
2. Typeahead search

Features we can be inspired from

1. Discovery via similar books, or a catalog of top books on the platform
2. A list of questions you can ask about the book

Also everyone is using Amazon affiliate links to both monetize, and also to present their service as not a replacement for reading the actual book. 

---

# Requirements

## Home page
1. Search bar allowing user to search for books. Detail requirements described in the Search bar section.
2. A section of popular books visited by users. Detailed requirements in the Popular books section.

## Search bar
1. A search bar with ghost text that guides users to search by book title or author. 

2. As the user types, it should show a drop down with a typeahead list of matching books already cached in our DB. The user is expected to type book title, author, or both, so the typeahead should be smart enough to handle the mixed input and typos and returned the result with book title, author, and cover image. The user can use keyboard arrows to navigate through the list.
  1. Typeahead would be high TPS and needs low latency. Also it needs to handle typos and mixed input for book title and author. Will need an architecture that's able to handle this. 

3. The typeahead dropdown should cotain two types of results:
  1. Matching book result based on typed prefix. The results should include cover photo, book title, and author. Clicking on this result should take the user to the book detail page. Show up to 5 matching book results sorted by best match.
  2. Verbatim typed query is always present in the search bar.If the user hits enter while highlight is in the search bar, it issues a Open Library search for the typed query and is displayed in the Search Result Page.

## Search result page (SERP)
1. SERP is powered by Open Library book search API. It returns a list of books matching the query, displaying the following information: 
  1. Book title
  2. Published year
  3. Book author
  4. Book cover image
Clicking on a result will do the following: 
  1. based on the key field in the Open Library API, it will see if there's an existing record in our book db. 
  2. If there's an existing record, it will redirect to the book detail page, indexed by the Open Library key.
  3. If there's no existing record, it will create an entry in our DB with the book details and key, and redirect to the book detail page.    

## Book detail page
Book detail page is powerd by our DB based on metadata fetched by Open Library API and Gemini/ChatGPT.
1. book cover image
2. Book title, and published year in parenthesis. E.g. The Great Gatsby (1925)
3. AI generated section. This section will fetch from Gemini for the first time, and will cache the result in our DB for subsequent queries. The first visit will show loading state and will fetch the results in the background, and update the UI once the results are returned and stored in our DB. The section includes:
  1. Book summary and key takeaways.
4. Affiliate links to buy books on Amazon for monetization

## Popular books section
This section shows the popular books visited by users over the past week (rolling window of 7 days). If there were no visits, just show the last added books. We will log total visits to the book detail page per day, and is able to return a ranked list of books by visit over the past week. This section should include book cover image, title, and author. Clicking on a book will redirect to the book detail page.

## Prompts needed

### Summarize a book 

> Give me a summary of the book {book_title} by {author}  in json format with the following fields: title, author, year, summary, and key takeaways. If you don’t know the book or don’t have enough knowledge about the book just return NULL.

Format your response in valid JSON format only
> 

## DB schema
1. Book: 
  1. title
  2. author
  3. open library key
  4. cover image
  5. summary
  6. affiliate links
2. Visits:
  1. book id
  2. date
  3. total visits on the day

## API endpoints needed
1. Typeahead: user type in a prefix with a combination of book title, author, or both. Return a list of books in our DB matching the prefix.
2. Search: makes a call to Open Library API and returns a list of books matching the query. 
3. Book detail: returns the book detail from our DB, if it exists. If it doesn't exist, fetch from Open Library API and store in our DB.
4. Book summary: returns the book summary from our DB, if it exists. If it doesn't exist, fetch from Gemini by default, and store in our DB. Provide the option to use ChatGPT as well.
5. Query LLM: takes in a prompt and returns the response from either Gemini, ChatGPT.
6. Update book summary: takes in a book id and the LLM: Gemini or ChatGPT. Use the selected LLM to replace the book summary and question-answer pairs in our DB.
7. Popular books: takes in a window of days (default to 7)and returns a list of up to 10 books ranked by total visits within that windows.

## Affiliate links
To monetize the service, we need to add affiliate links to the book detail page in a programmatic way. Explore additional affiliate links to add to the book detail page if it's easy to add programmatically.
Some references:
1. Use open-source libraries like [Affiliate JS](https://affiliate.js.org/) to programmatically add the affiliation tags to links on your website.
2. [Reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44329850/how-to-get-amazon-affiliate-product-url-programatically) 

## Scripts needed
1. bootstrap_books.py: populate initial books and metadata with Open Library API

## Testing
1. Test all API endpoints with mock data to ensure they work as expected.
2. Test a user flow of typing in search box, and:
  1. click on a book result.
  2. hit enter on a verbatim query, then click on a SERP result.
3. View the book detail page for:
  1. a book that exists in our DB, and has summary and question-answer pairs. The book detail page should instantly show the summary and question-answer pairs.
  2. a book that exist in our DB, but doesn't have summary and question-answer pairs. The book detail page should show loading state and fetch the summary and question-answer pairs in the background, and update the UI once the results are returned and stored in our DB.
  3. a book that doesn't exist in our DB. The book detail page should be displayed fairly instantly from the Open Library API metadata and store in our DB, andshow loading state and fetch the book detail from Open Library API in the background, and update the UI once the results are returned and stored in our DB.

# Risks
1. LLM hallucinates. Have to be mindful how we position our product so people feel like these are answers from AI that can be imperfect.
2. Book copyrights. Should be a non issue until we have massive traction. Also we can avoid this by actively driving users to buy books, which also contributes to monetization.

